I get to a second chance at this one
because i mispronounced her name before
Omaha Omaha shield is an astronomer and
she's going to deliver presentation
entitled bi polar ice you go girl 14
years ago I left a career in astronomy
because I thought there was only one way
to be a scientist there was only one
kind of person who could be a scientist
and it wasn't me today I know there is
not only one way to be a scientist just
like as a researcher I've discovered
that ice doesn't behave in only one way
say there's a planet orbiting the Sun
with some bright white ice at the poles
most of the sun's light is light that we
can see with our eyes visible light ice
on that planet is going to act like this
white shirt and reflect most of the
visible light that hits it if that ice
could talk it would say something like
this to the sun's visible light okay
thanks but like no thanks like light is
energy an energy can heat so like I'm
going to take a little of your light and
give you the rest back like I don't want
to melt I want to grow and the more
light that ice reflects back to space
the less light it absorbs the cold or
the planet gets the more ice forms my
research has shown that without any
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to
keep the planet warm planets around
stars that are even brighter than the
Sun could become ice-covered snowballs
but see here's the thing ice doesn't
treat all types of light equally it
doesn't behave in only one way let's
take stars that are cooler than the Sun
most of their light is in for
headlight not visible light ice on a
planet orbiting a much cooler star is
going to act like these black pants
towards infrared light if that ice could
talk it would say something a little
different to it stars infrared light it
would say come on in baby i want you i
need you i have to have you don't worry
baby I'm not gonna reject you and
reflect you I'm going to absorb you
that's how much I love you and the more
light that ice absorbs the warmer that
planet gets remember light is energy and
energy heats the warmer that planet gets
what's going to happen to that ice it's
going to melt so what this means is that
we may not see much in the way of ice on
planets orbiting cooler stars and
smaller cooler stars are most of the
stars in the universe so our planet with
it's bright polar caps could be pretty
rare but as I found in my life there are
many ways to be a scientist so there are
likely many ways to make a
life-sustaining planet ice or no ice in
science and in life there are always
many possible ways thank